One of the most underrated habits you
could build in life is reading more
books. Not because it makes you look
smart, not because it's trendy, but
because books give you access to
something that most people never get,
which is an experience without paying
the full price for it. And so every book
is someone who lived longer than you,
made mistakes before you, went through
them, failed before you, figured things
out before you, and decided to write it
down and share it with you. And that's
decades of thinking, living, and
learning compressed into a few hundred
pages. Of course, reading isn't
necessarily the same living
experience yourself, but you won't feel
everything the same way. You won't
understand every lesson fully until you
go through it and life tests you. But
reading gives you awareness and
awareness changes how you move through
life. You start recognizing patterns
earlier,
decisions earlier.
You avoid mistakes. You didn't need to
make yourself. You learn how people
think, not just what they do. And the
biggest benefit that nobody talks about,
reading slows you down. In this rapid,
quick changing world, obsessed with
speed. Books force patience, focus, and
reflection. And so most people don't
struggle because they're not capable.
They struggle because they keep
repeating the same damn mistakes.
Mistakes someone already solved 50 years
ago. And so you don't need to go through
50 books a year. You don't need to turn
it into a competition. But if you read
consistently, you quietly gain an edge
that compounds over time in life because
knowledge stacks, different perspectives
stacks, wisdom stacks, and so read
books. All right. Books won't
change your life in a guaranteed way,
but they won't live your life for you,
right? But they'll help you live it with
a fewer regrets.